Love exists
Director / Maurice Pialat
Long ago
I was living in the suburbs
My first memory is
that of the suburbs
Deep in my memory, a train passes by
Just like in the movies
Memories and films are filled up
with objects that we dread
I have lived in this Courbevoie
area for a long time
Where bombs destroyed old houses but
the church saved has been cleared away
I replace as a victim against those
sacred stones, a school friend
We were singing together in class
To die for the nation
One day of Glory equals
100 years of life
The Vidal-Lablache maps awakened
in me the desire to travel far away
But they especially kept their illusion
between our poor landscapes
A look still pure can be read without
bitterness, here, where the slag
the dust and the rust are like an outcropping
of deep geological strata of stone
Palace, Eden, Magic, Lux, Kursaal
The best time of the week became
Thursday afternoons
Piled up in the front rows
the best seats boys and girls had
the full reign of two hour
forjust a few coins
Because the towers of the big mills of Pantin
are like a "Burg" drawn by Hugo,
the common glass piled up along the Ourcq
canal shines brighter than the stones
At 15 years old, riding a bike, it's nothing
to go past a jogger in training
The winter wind cutting the Polygone
of Vincennes Wood, less severe than
the winter wind that would follow witnessing
the Panzer test flights across the field
Walking, first crushes on
the border of la Marne
dark shadows and silent parties
dance steps for girls, ballrooms
would close their doors
Bathing at la Marne Yesterday Eldorado
old silent and rare, sleeping of the mud
Suddenly the streets are slow and silent
The fried food of Suresnes, Paris will
be tuned in to the melody of an accordion
The entire suburbs will be frozen as
in a favoured set of a French movie
At Montreuil, the Melies studio
lies in disrepair
That way, beauties and pleasures
disappear, without noise
The sad Suburb that is bored a grey
parade under the rain sang Piaf
The sad Suburb that is a bored
grey parade under the rain
Boredom is the main factor of erosion
in landscapes of the poor
Childhood castles disappear from adults
returning to the garden of their school
like at recess time then
the trains take them away
The Suburbs grow up
To be divided into small lands The Big Suburb
is the chosen land of the Little Pavilion
It's the craziness of small things
My little house, my little garden
a good little job a good quiet little life
Life spent waiting to be paid
Life spent in the working hours
Life full of overtime hours
Life framed in terms of social assistance
security, retreat, insurance
People that buy everything at the retail price
and sell it at the wholesale price
We live in the kitchen
it's the smallest room
Beside the festivities, the dining room opens
its door only during the cleaning hours;
it's the biggest room: we preciously
keep the precious things
Lives with a future that has already passed
and an eternal present constantly waiting
The Pavilion of the Suburbs can be a minor
expression of generosity of the French
In danger, he will disappear
To be deaf, the fight is not
always a silent one
Courage built upon the front lines
The Parisian region is the poorest in
the world in terms of green space
however, the systematic destruction
of old parks is not yet finished
massacre, along with real estate
speculation that serves the purpose
of artificial lure for residency guaranteed
by trees centuries old
Here is the coming age
of the civilian barracks
A contradictory world payable in increments
Urbanism imagined in terms of voyeurism
Poor materials damaged before
construction is finished
Landscape, in general being bad
we go about to abolish windows,
ince there is nothing to look at
Entrepreneurs keep the nostalgia of work
done for the Todt organisation alive
Completion of (social)
class segregation
Introduction of age segregation
Parents of the same age having the same
number of children of the same age
We don't choose
We are chosen
Model students, still as photos
are who the teachers all want
Shadowy games in basements of disproportion
Constraints of ready-made games Or evasion
Or evasion
What will be their memories?
Happiness will be decided
in board rooms
The red belt will be dyed in pink
Who repeats today of the French
that they are undisciplined?
An entire class is conditioned by landlords
ready to replace the next one
Class that make good elections
Artificial culture in artificial construction
Again and again
Advertising prevails against reality
They exist 3 km from
the Champs-Elysees
Light construction in panels and
asphalt boards That ignites very easily
Utensils of kerosene serve
to cook and to light
Number of microbes breathed in a meter cube
of air by a cashier in a supermarket 4 million
Number of words typed in a year
by a secretary: 5 million
Loss of playgrounds, loss
of sports fields: 75%I
Loss of kindergartens: 99%I
Number of colleges
Paris is 29
Sons of workers
1 .5%I of colleges in paris
Sons of workers: 0.9%I
The literature department 0.2%I
Theatres (outside of Paris): 0
Concert halls: 0
Half of the year, free time is at night
but every morning, comes
the fear of being late
Leave in the black of the night
Run to the station
Blind and chaotic commute
in crowds packed and sticky
Jump into a warm subway
The walking of endless transfers
Automatic doors
Piled up in overloaded trains
Second ride on a bus
Work is a delivery
Evening, once again
2 hours, 3 hours
4 hours of commute
This grey water moves only
in the morning and evening
The majority are up in front doing the wor
Those in the back are picking up the slack
The country has its hours
of an ebbing tide
The Bus, a millionaire in kilometres,
And the Worker, a millionaire in gestures
separated a second time, an evening
so discrete that we didn't pay attention
On one side, old buses with platforms
have no right to retire
the administration sells them
they have to start again a new career
On the other side, old workers
Old age that has to, in the spirit of each
employee, undoubtly overcome
old age is like a prize, like a market
that each is considered to have passed
They have paid for it! Paid to be old
The only age where we leave you alone,
but what a peace it is
A rest for 9,000 FF per month
The isolation in old areas... the Home
They wait for the far away hour to go
back to the countryside of their Childhood
For the time when the livestock
returned from the pastures
Hills covered by shadows dogs barking
the smell of cattle
A common voice, very far away
They could lend a hand and feel
the pages of the book,
The very first book they read
Outside it's cold and the dog comes
to hide between our legs
Mummy served the soup, it's very hot
Jacques stands up straight
The Small public gardens didn't replace
the Landscape of the lle-de
France where were coming, yesterday
still to Paris, meeting the Painters
The traveller hurries ignoring the suburbs
Those streets exposed more to
barricades than to parades
Keep secretly untouchable beauty
The one who could say it
Don't speak Nobody
taught them to read it
Gifted child Adolescence found
fixed and boring, definitely
It was not good to stay "There"
After being born A few
kilometres too far apart
Years and years of
furnished hotel rooms
Filled up at 10 in the same room
Punch given, punch received
Ears closed to shouting
At the end of working time
when the museums are closed
No promotion, no plan, no spending
Will stop the bleeding Nothing mustbe
left to keep the misery
The lesson of darkness is never
written on monuments
The hand of glory ordering
and directing
It can also beg
A simple change of angle is enough
The Styrene Song
Director / Alain Resnais
Man is served by blind matter
He thinks, he searches, he creates!
With his living breath
the buds of nature
Tremble as a forest
rustles in the wind
Victor Hugo
Oh mystic time
Oh plastic substance!
Where do you come from?
Who are you?
What can explain
your rare qualities?
What are you made of?
What is your origin?
Let us rediscover the ancestors
from the object itself!
Let us reverse the story
First here is the mold
and we surround the prototype
This mysterious being
Produces anything it wants
But the mold itself
is part of a press
Which injects the paste
and shapes the piece
The greatest advantage is the ability
To complete such work
with no further procedures
The mold is expensive
which is a small disadvantage
But it can be used
in many ways
Vacuum shaping is
another method of making things
A little suction is all it takes
The carefully arranged warm material
Gets laid out on the board
To enter the nozzle, a piston
and a heating adaptor are required
or we could say
an adapted heater
then we turn the rough polystyrene
to fine granules
And the granules on the vibrant sieve
are full of beautiful colors
Before turning into granules
they had been like straws
Straws of all colors and tones
These straws had been
arranged in a series
in the shape of a long cylinder
held together by screws
Which through this, colored pearls
of every variety are made
And how did the coloring pigment
Uniformly attach itself
on the polystyrene?
It needs to be rotated and hardened
before it tumbles in a rotary
That's how the polymer polystyrene
is born from the simple styrene
Polymerization occurs
when molecules combine
To become a complex
chemical combination
And in the concave belly of
a basic autoclave machine
Molecules cling to each other
like pearls linked together
But before that
The styrene was volatile
a colorless liquid with odor
Take a good look as this is your
only chance to see the liquid
Styrene is produced in large quantities
from overheated ethylbenzene
It requires catalysts such as
Oxide, zinc, and magnesium
In the past styrene was
extracted from benzoin
Of the styrax family,
a small tree found in Indonesia
From tube to tube, it proceeds
through a desert of channels
Back towards its original product
towards the abstract material
That circulates endlessly
while it cleans, distills, and redistills
A certain degree of temperature is needed
for ethylbenzene to explode
We must now ask
where ethylene and benzene
come from
They are extracted from
the magical liquid of petroleum oil
And also extracted from coal
To make ethylene and benzene
both petroleum oil and coal are fine
Transformed into gas
the coal combusts
And gives birth to these hydrocarbons
We should strike out
on these new paths
And examine why the one
and the other exists
Does petroleum come
from masses of fish?
We do not know much about coal
nor from where it comes
Does petroleum come from plankton?
It's a controversial question
with obscure origins
And petroleum and coal were
vanishing into smoke
Before that chemist came
a happy idea
To render the smokes solid and
to fashion Innumerable useful objects
And these obscure residues were
thus transformed into new things
And there remain other things
yet unknown Awaiting still similar efforts
To make them the subject
of other documentaries
Tributed to Jean cocteau
Charlotte and her Lover
Screenplay & Director
Jean-Luc Godard
It's me!
I know it's you
I knew you would come back
I told you
You missed me
You're stupid!
You never want to listen to me
I know why you came back I will tell
you came back to apologize!
It's too late! It's useless to say
anything little girl;you should just go to hell
It's great, I think you are the most
beautiful girl in Paris
It's pointless
it's predictable, with this guy
we should've guessed
What an idiot!
No, you really exaggerate
I know what you're going to tell me
It's wrong, it's really wrong
Of course, it didn't work!
It didn't work, because
it couldn't work
and it can't work, because
it wasn't supposed to work
Impossible!
You should know impossible
is a French word... stupid!
Me too, I can jump on anybody
Charlotte, what I'm blaming you
for, is not to be in love
but to believe he is in love with you
It's true, I'm not kidding
you have to think before you act
I don't blame you to believe in love
but to believe in theories of love
I find it wonderful
coming from girls
People says love is like a waltz
three little turns, yes, yes, yes! No!
That's why when you broke up
with me, I didn't say anything...
You came back with your head
down eight days later!
I ask myself
what are you doing here, so?
Look at what you look like now?
You would tell me
you couldn't guess
But yes! Stupid!
What were you thinking going
out with a guy like that!
I knew he would leave you
I expected as much! You too...
Me, on the contrary
it amazes me to see the lack
of practical sense in girls!
You have a nice little body...
I don't deny it
- Anyway you're a bitch!
- Oh!
I know, I know
he's going to hire you for next film
because you're sleeping with him?
No way!
I know him, he's the worst cad
Listen to what I'm telling you
dammit!
Ah, if only you were
good at making love!
Move your knee away from here!
Put your hand there! Move a bit!
Ah! Like that!
You have to be told!
I swear, you have to
see it to believe it!
Terrible!
I told you that
he's not the kind of guy
who thinks it's fun!
He doesn't care about girls!
I'm asking you what's going
through your mind?
Well, I also wonder what
are you doing with him?
Oh, nothing! He touches me...
But let me finish my sentence
When we were at the beach
I told you to not make fun of me
It's always the same... Shit!
It's not being with a guy like that
who charmed you for 3 minutes
when you've loved me for 3 years
that I blame you for
but by doing it so easily!
Even right in front of my face
- Don't act stupid, it's important!
- Yeah, yeah!
Don't tell me it's not true
I told you impossible doesn't work!
I knew you would come back!
Be serious!
You can't be without me!
I told you a thousand times
you're incapable
I know what you think
Same with me?
That's why, I knew you would
come back to apologize!
Don't say no!
What does that mean?
C'mon Charlotte
because I love you
you have to love me
If I didn't like you, fine!
But because I love you
you love me too
No!
I told you not to speak
You're exhausting!
It's great!
So what, it was weird
my poor little girl!
We need to do things
with a bit of cleverness
Oh yeah! Poor guy!
You really want to do movies?
There are 12,000 other guys
you have to sleep with!
And besides
why make movies?
I find it disgraceful, disgraceful
and old fashioned
It's true!
What is cinema?
A big head making
faces in a little room
You have to be...
to like that!
Oh yeah! I know what I said!
It's an illusionary art
Novels, paintings like that
but not cinema
Everybody will tell you
you're crazy!
But you don't want to listen
You're the only girl in Parisz
who people can sleep with for free!
- Oh!
- But let me talk!
I know what you're going to tell me
You love to do that
Better to go walk the streets, so you
could make me some money too
It's true, When I suggested it to you
I admit that you refused, fine!
But being a hooker in a room, me
I found it a thousand times worse!
Me, I have the right to party
with those little, You don't!
Because you understand
that you're a blessed soul
Really! Charlotte!
Do you realise that behind the face
there is a soul, and as soon as
we look at the face of
a girl we see her soul!
For boys, it's not the same
It surprises you, huh?
Reminds me of a guy
from "Dupont-Bastille"
You know what he said?
What is most important
Ladies and Gentleman,
it's not love, it's not war
it's not money, it's not happiness,
It's not women, No! hat is the most
important, the subtleties!
Yes, darling. But by the time you
will understand this, it will be warm.
God dammit
you cut your hair!
But you're crazy, poor thing!
Who do you think you are?
Who do you think you look like!
France is full of idiots but you win the prize
I know what you'll say
but it's wrong
Unbelievable!
Girls don't know but it's so clear
You are stupid, by definition
Stay still, dammit!
Let me finish my sentence
I know what you're going to say
Why do you love me?
But you're stupid
Really!
You don't know if I love you, idiot
Well I don't like you anymore
You guessed it, My somber idiot
you came back for nothing
I told you if you left me and if you
were coming back without apologizing
I wouldn't give a shit
You could beg me
I would pretend
I didn't hear you. Like...
like that actor, when
Simone Simon told him
He would jump out the window
I don't know in what thing, it's...
- What kind of move?
- It was a film of Max Ophuls...
Shut up! Everything that
happens is your fault...
The morning we had to get married
You didn't have to fall asleep again
We wouldn't have be
late to City Hall!
It's always the same with you!
Girls think they have
the moral right in everything!
I can't deal with this!
I told you
it will come back to you!
I already knew you would
come back crying
You're wonderful Charlotte!
If I forgive you, it'll be a pure miracle
the light path
Shit!
A miracle of great importance!
Really! Everything that
happened, is a miracle
Picasso, you know what he
was saying about Cocteau?
It's a miracle to not
melt in a bath!
Don't open your month I knew
before that you're wrong!
Your biggest fault is
to speak for nothing
Men hate that. At your age
you should know that!
Don't pretend you're listening
It's clear that you're not listening
I know you're thinking about that guy
I know he's waiting in his car
So why did you come back?
Get the hell out!
know what you're doing
Remember! When we met, I had
a paratrooper's beret and you were
saying to everybody with your little voice
My parents kicked me out! I don't
know where I'm going to sleep
And stupid me said
Come sleep in my bed
I'll sleep on the sofa...
I feel like hitting you! Disgusting!
You don't want to lay a coat
in front of my feet?
And I'm such an idiot!
You didn't ask for more
huh! I touched you
- while you pretended to "sleep"
- No, No!
In the morning, you nothing
happened listening to Jazz
you were looking at yourself
naked in the mirror
You asked me What do
you think about me?
What do I think about you?
God dammit, but look at yourself in the mirror!
No, no joke, Charlotte!
When I said you had nice breasts
it was to please you...
- Oh!
- If we can't even laugh anymore, so!
Great!
I know you're not the first to whom
I predicted the worse and God knows
if I was always right!
Look at your friend Veronique
She should be slapped
Girls like that! Oh yeah
All the same!
You're always thinking that people
love you for your spirit...
The spirit of your ass, yes!
In order to please, we need to hate...
At the discotheque the first time
we saw each other sambas, mambos...
But the poor guys who go
there with a necktie...
multicolored...
What are they looking for?
ambas, mambos? My ass!
Really! They come to "grind"!
In... in fact, I wonder why
I waste my time?
It's best that you leave
That's right!
I was tired of you using my electric
razor to shave your what? Legs!
And I'll be quiet. At least
I'll get my room back
And, I'll be able to go to the window
without your panties in my face!
It's true, guys living on women
I was against that. But what a burden!
Women, we have to beat them up!
I never wanted because for me
civilisation represents some kind of value
But I was stupid!
We have to beat them! Yes, that's it
We have to beat them up!
It's sad to say, I agree! But we need to hit
We have to! We have to hit!
Do we have to tell them anything?
Not at all!
I'll explain it, There is obviously
a link between the previous one...
You have to stay with me
It's Cartesian logic!
You love me, I love you
But if it's on purpose
I'm talking I'm in a play
Yes, I am terribly moved!
You knew I couldn't
be without you
Ah la la! Bitch! If I knew!
And the story of 40.000 FF Don't
pretend to have forgotten it,
No! If you leave I'm screwed
That's right! You know!
Just... find another guy who'll accept
everything without complaining!
The night when you didn't
come home the police
they couldn't stop laughing
But I don't care
I don't blame you!
Yes, I blame you!
No, I don't blame you!
Or maybe better, yes
I do blame you!
I don't know!
I don't blame you to
not blame yourself!
I know I'm a wimp
but it's because I love you.
I can't live without you.
Where do you want me to go
if you abandon me?
Please, don't leave me Charlotte!
Well, if you leave
I'll punch your face!
Me too, I have a lot connections
they contacted me from Hollywood
Yes! For my novel
Stay with me
As soon as my book gets published
I'll give you an "Alfa-Romeo"
British cars are ugly
I always told you
you have bad taste!
No! You're right. I say I'm
not making any sense
But it's not your fault
if I confuse everything
I am desperate since you left
Charlotte, don't leave me alone
please, Charlotte!
Yes, stay! You have no right!
If you do I'll kill myself!
I beg you to stay, Charlotte!
I know what you'll tell me
In love, men are wimps
lazy, cruel, idiots!
Yes, that's right! I'm a jerk
but deep down you
don't really hate it
A guy with style
you've missed it
Don't say it's not true!
I knew it. You too,
you can't be without me
That's why you came back?
No, Jean I came back to
pick up my toothbrush!
The Shepherd Move
Here is the moral of the story
The best chess player is the one who can
anticipate one step ahead of his opponent
Let's take a common example:
the so- called "shepherd"
Only a novice can be fooled
It's her move
- Are you going out?
- Yes, I'm going to meet Solange
Kiss her for me
See you tonight
Take off your coat
Do you want to drink a bit?
More
Where did you go?
I just came back
- Darling
- My darling?
My darling, did you know that
in order to
honor their lover
and prove their gratitude
the Jivaro Indians used
to offer them,
on the eve of the 3rd moon
a shriveled head, did you?
- a shriveled head, did you?
- Terrible!
That's what I think
So I would prefer
for the occasion...
- What occasion?
- Hmm, the occasion, this fur...
A fur
- What's this
- A fur
Do you like it?
Here is the animal fur
that will be the plot of the game
Clear Italian- style attack
Stop moving
The curtains
Thief!
You're not going to sleep with it
What are we gonna do?
Why?
- About Jean
- Jean?
I can't tell him, uhh...
Of course not
So, what are we gonna do?
Make something up
Tell him you found it,
that you won it
- Be serious
- So, well... think of something yourself!
I have an idea, but I don't know...
You'll make fun of me
C'mon, say it...
Their plan is simple
Put the fur in a suitcase
Go to some train station
and act like a traveler
I just got back
- It's done
- Did everything go okay?
It's 1 1 Dames Augustines Street
How will I tell him?
- What?
- Where I found it
Wait...
the perfect crime...
- Yvonne, Is my husband here?
- Yes, Madam
Good evening, darling
Good evening
I'm a bit late I took a slow cab
- Can we eat soon?
- Yes, right now
- Claire
- Yes?
I would like to go to bed early I have
to go to the office tomorrow morning
Yvonne, when will it be ready...
I'm tired
What would I do if...
If what, sweetie?
I will take a rest
- Look
- What's that?
Do you see It's a locker ticket
It was on the floor in the taxi
- Why did you pick it up?
- Well, uh...
You should have left it
- What do I do now?
- Just throw it away
We can't What if...
- You should have given it to the driver
- Ah, I didn't think of that
To bad Throw it away
Maybe it's something expensive
I don't know, sweetie
Put it under the vase
You're wrong
You think so
Wrong about what?
About the locker ticket
Why? What do you want me to do?
We should look
We never know what it is
Maybe there's an address
if it was important, they wouldn't
have lost it like that...
They would have paid more attention
However it's not much
If it was really valuable
they could go to the locker
The clerk would recognize them
How could he?
Sure he could They would describe
what they left inside
Yvonne!
Did you order the stuff?
Stuff?
The things for tomorrow evening
You will give them something to eat
Of course, sure
It is tomorrow evening, isn't it?
Because I called Chichette
I confirmed for tomorrow
Of course, it's tomorrow
So you don't want to do anything?
I will play a little bit of
piano for them
Not for that
For the locker ticket
What locker ticket?
- That's it?
- It's Monday
Monday A full moon day
I'll go tomorrow morning
- It's becoming a habit
- But did you hear what I said?
I'll go to the locker tomorrow morning
There we are
Everything is ok
You are unbelievable!!
What is it?
Do you want me to go?
Do you really want me to?
So I'll leave sweetie, I'll go
- Will you go?
- Tomorrow morning I promise
Are you happy?
The next morning
The game continues
Claire places her "bishop"
You're lovely
I'm a fool, yes
Bye bye, my little darling
Claude, it worked...
- Yes?
- It's your sister
- Pardon her
- Well, I'm your sister
- Hello
- I'm leaving I just passed by to bring this
- What is it?
- Don't tell me It's unbelievable
Your little party is this evening
isn't it?
Yes, I hope you won't be so bored
C'mon, how can I?
Please
- What is it? Look so bad
- Nothing special
- How's your love life?
- My love life, what love life?
- Why? Don't you have lovers?
- Lovers?
I see
- It's time you got married
- Oh, it's not what you think
Love life is...
very good
It's really good, very good...
You just bought it?
- But it's my grey jacket
- I've never seen it before
It's been more than a year
- Don't you like it?
- I do...
Try it on
- Does it fit?
- I think
- Take it
- But, I...
- Take it I don't wear it anymore
- I don't want to steal it from you
What are you saying
It's you who isn't feeling right
- You, too, I find acting bizarre lately
- Yes, why?
I don't know You're strange
There's nothing wrong
You're making it up
It's possible
Have you decided? So?...
What is the time, then?
have to go...
- Claire, you are a darling
- Solange, you are an angel
- Oh, an angel...
- A lost angel, but still an angel